---
layout: post
title: "Reading Resources"
date: 2023-09-12 00:00:00 -0000
---

# Resources for Teaching your Child to Read

Teaching your child to read can be so much fun but sometimes it is hard to know where to start. I have used many different resources to teach children to read and have discussed some of them below. Feel free to use some of these ideas to get started!
One of the first things I recommend is teaching the most basic sounds. Start by teaching your child a sound for each letter. This song is a fun and easy way to get started. It is called Phonics Song 2 and is available on YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BELlZKpi1Zs
Here are some other resources for when you are ready to take the next steps in helping your child to read!

1.	**Learning Dynamics Book Set** - I love this book set. It is rare to find a set of beginning reader books that are actually decodable. I recommend this book set if you want your child to see quick success with reading. It gets them started and lets them see progress immediately. The kids I worked with preferred Learning Dynamics books to Bob books because they look more like a real book with colorful pictures. I think Bob books are still a great option especially for younger children. It just might be harder to motivate an older reader with them.  https://www.amazon.com/Weeks-Read-Kindergartners-Confidence-Activities/dp/B07HWTT4WY?th=1
2.	**Teachyourmonster.org** - This is a really fun free computer game that kids love and it teaches them foundational reading skills. They will want to play it over and over which is great for practice! It is a great introduction to reading and even older kids who need additional reading support enjoy playing it! It is free to use on a Chromebook but not on the app.
3.	**Lalilo** is another great computer game for kids that teaches foundational reading skills. Lalilo covers a larger range of reading skills and shows you skills that your child needs to continue to practice. Kids do not find this game as fun as teachyourmonster.org but it is still a great tool to help your child learn more skills that the other game does not cover. It is a great next step once they have mastered teachyourmonster.org or in addition to it. https://www.lalilo.com/
4.	**Reading Reflex : the foolproof phono-graphix method for teaching your child to read / Carmen McGuinness, Geoffrey McGuinness**. I found this book at the library. It is a great tool to use for starting basic reading skills with your child and continuing to practice with your child. It has simple activities that you can use again and again with more challenging words. It gets repetitive for kids so I used it as just one part of our daily reading activities. You can make copies from the book or use letter tiles (like from Scrabble) and have your child practice the phonics activities that way.
5.	**Phonics Pathways : clear steps to easy reading and perfect spelling / Dolores G. Hiskes**. This book is helpful in that it shows students many phonics rules and example words that follow those rules. There are game ideas in the back of the book that you can use with the words in the lessons. It is not set up as scripted lessons though so you will need to prepare a little bit to make it more engaging for your child.
6.	**Teach your child to read in 100 easy lessons / Siegfried Engelmann, Phyllis Haddox, Elaine Bruner**. This is a pretty specific method in that they change the text to help your reader. I would recommend this option if you have a young reader and are committed to the program. Many students find it repetitive though so I might start elsewhere.
7.	**Logic of English** is a full program that has multiple levels to teach your child to read. I highly recommend this program if you are teaching your child with daily lessons. It is great for homeschooling. It teaches a lot of grammar and ways to remember the rules of English. It also has fun stories and games that help children remember the rules. I used level C to start since my students had already mastered basic sounds. I definitely recommend the teacher manual for the lessons and the book, “Knitting Knights” about the sounds. These tools really helped the children remember the sounds and understand the phonics rules in a fun, clear way. I found that the workbook had a lot of pages but very little for my students to do. There are tons of better workbooks available. I also found that my students struggled with the readers that came with it. The program does have flash cards with all the sounds and those were very helpful but you could also make your own.  https://store.logicofenglish.com/collections/foundations-c
8.	**Spectrum Phonics Grade 2 Workbook**: I found this workbook to be extremely useful. It is the best phonics workbook I have found so far. Students need to practice writing and reading the sounds once you have gone over them. This workbook gives them the opportunity to do that. I even made copies and had the same students do the worksheet months apart if they forgot a sound or still needed more practice.
9.	**Core Knowledge Free Curriculum**: This free curriculum covers PK-8th grade and multiple subjects including reading, math, and science. I have only used the phonics pages but they have been very helpful. There are worksheets that cover more challenging sounds that I have discovered are hard to find elsewhere. You can print out what you need for free or there are full workbooks and texts you can purchase. https://www.coreknowledge.org/curriculum/download-curriculum/

There are so many great resources to use when helping your child learn to read. A mix of books, games, and songs can make it all more fun! Hopefully you will find even more great resources along the way!

